{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1044{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs48\lang20 Community Science Museum\fs22\par
\ldblquote Explore together\rdblquote\par
Come join us at the Community Science Museum where we\rquote re committed to making science accessible to all.\par
Over the course of human history, science has developed from our early understanding of fire, wind, water, and earth to exploring everything from galaxies far away to the very building blocks of life itself.\par
The aim of our museum is to create a space where everyone can experience the wonders of our discoveries and perhaps even ignite a lifelong passion to continue the exploration of the world around us.\par
We believe science should not be confined to the textbook, but brought to live through exhibits. This is why we have over 1000 different exhibits on the many varied subjects of science to explore. Many of these exhibits are designed for you to interact with and play around to see science come to life (apart from the dinosaur exhibits \f1\endash  they only come to life at night when everyone\rquote s gone home).\par
\b\fs32 Explo\f0\lang1044 r\f1\lang20 e\b0\fs22\par
\b For kids\b0\par
Are you a young person looking to learn more about science? Come on down to our museum, there\rquote s plenty to see and do.\par
You can learn about Newtonian physics from our bumper swing, or why not travel back in time and meet our resident Woolly Mammoth? Our exhibits are designed to be accessible for interested minds, so make sure you come ready to learn and explore.\par
We also have the Young Stars club which meets once a week on a Saturday between 10:00 and 13:00 where you\rquote ll get to explore and experiment with our team of experts.\par
During the school holidays we run special holiday clubs where you can join other children your age to go on a journey of discovery. Each holiday we pick a new theme to explore. To find out more about the holiday club and how you can join, send us a message.\par
\b For teachers\par
\b0 As a community-driven museum, we want to work with schools to create places of learning and exploring. Our team are on hand to give your students guided tours of the museum, teach them in our learning laboratory, and provide great video presentations that will excite and inspire them.\par
Please get in touch with us here to find out more about our facilities and to arrange a time to bring your students through for a visit.\par
\b Researchers\b0\par
Are you looking to get involved with our team of researchers and academics? Our museum offers various ways for you to use our resources and contribute towards them. We have online records, laboratory space, and a working relationship with a number of universities around the country.\par
\b\fs32 Exhibition Spaces\b0\fs22\par
\i Cosmology\i0\par
Explore the wonders of our cosmos. Our fantastic exhibition, \lquote The Sky Above Us\rquote , explores the night sky and what we can see and know about the universe around us. We\rquote ll locate the various constellations and galaxies that can be seen and learn a bit about the early navigators who used the stars to travel by.\par
Follow the journey of our solar exploration: from early Arab traders, to Galileo\rquote s telescope, to the latest exploration of the planets in our solar system.\par
\i Evolution\i0\par
For centuries, philosophers and scientists have wrestled with the question of our origins. Where do we come from and how did we get here? Since Darwin proposed his theory of evolution we have had a framework for exploring and understanding our place in this world.\par
Discover the origins of life on this planet and how the species we know today have evolved our time. You can also take some time to meet a few of the creatures who didn\rquote t survive, including our Woolly Mammoth, the Dodos, and a number of dinosaurs too.\i\par
Biology and Medicine\par
\i0 From micro-organisms to the human body, major breakthroughs in biology are offering us unique insights into the great wonders of the tiny world.\par
For many people their life expectancy is much longer and their quality of life much improved, thanks to the growth of our understanding of medicine. Over a series of exhibits we explore the history of medicine and take a look at some major breakthroughs including the discovery of penicillin and the firs\f0\lang1044 t heart transplant.\par
Many of our great medicinal discoveries have come not only from the lab, but also from observing animals in the wild. Often our fellow creatures have beat us to it.\par
\i Robotics and AI\par
\i0 The information revolution is here and robotics and artificial intelligence are the science of the future. From useful home applications of AI to industrial uses of robotics, the future is here. You can even say hello and shake the hand of Rob the Robot.\par
\i Ecology\i0\par
As we learn more and more of the impact humans are having on the planet, the more important it becomes that scientists explore how to create a sustainable future not just for humans but for the whole planet.\par
In our ecology section of the museum, we unpack the dangers we currently face including global warming, extinction of species, and pollution. But we also focus on the positive ways we can all contribute to a brighter future.\par
\b\fs32 Special Events and Exhibitions\par
\fs22 News\b0\par
\ul Visiting Professor of Aeronautics\par
\ulnone It is our pleasure to announce that Prof Sheila Widnall from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will be delivering 3 lectures on the development of aeronautics and where the future lies in this exciting \lquote space\rquote .\par
\ul Night in the Museum\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Get your family together for an exciting night in the museum as you sleep over beside dinosaurs and science displays. Bring your own sleeping bag and get ready to rough it as we go exploring the wonders of science.\par
\ul Energetica Exhibition on Loan\ulnone\par
On loan from the NEMO Science Museum in Amsterdam, the Energetica exhibition is coming to the Community Science Museum. It\rquote s a series of installations that allow visitors to experience the power of the elements as we harness them. From solar energy powering lighting, to \lquote Wind Island\rquote  that shows how turbines are able to use and control wind to create power.\par
\b\fs32 Visit\b0\fs22\par
\b Location\b0\par
The museum is located at [student to include address].\par
\b Admission\b0\par
The entrance is free for all.\par
There are guided tours of the museum that leave every hour. These tours are 70 NOK per person and include a handy printed guide of the museum.\par
If you would like to organise a guided tour for your group of 6 or more people, please contact us to arrange the tour.\par
\par
\b Hours\b0\par
Monday: Closed\par
Tuesday: 10:00 \f1\endash  16:00\par
Wednesday: 10:00 \endash  16:00\par
Thursday: 10:00 \endash  16:00\par
Friday: 10:00 \endash  19:00\par
Saturday: 9:00 \endash  16:00\par
Sunday: 9:00 \endash  13:00\par
\par
\b Accessibility\b0\par
The museum has wheelchair accessibility ramps. It also has audio guides and braille display signs for the visually impaired.\par
\b Food and drink\b0\par
There is a caf\f0\'e9 attached to the museum where you can get light lunches, soft drinks, coffee, snacks and more.\par
\b Shop\b0\par
Our shop offers a range of memorabilia from the museum as well as great gifts and activity packs that allow you to continue to explore science even after you\rquote ve left the museum.\par
\b\fs36 Get Involved\b0\fs22\par
\b Support\b0\par
There are various ways you can support the museum. Donations are very welcome and are an important way we keep this museum open and accessible to the whole community.\par
You can also support us by donating items of interest to the museum\rquote s collections. If you have some item or collection that you think others would enjoy, please let us know by contacting our Collections Department and they will be able to assist you.\par
\b Volunteer\b0\par
A number of people volunteer their time and effort to keep the displays in good order and ready for visitors to come and enjoy. Volunteering has its perks including getting to see behind the scenes of a working museum, access to staff-only lectures, and a monthly lunch where all staff and volunteers come together to discuss ideas for future exhibits and strategies for the museum.\par
You can help volunteer in a number of different spheres. Please contact us if you\rquote d like to find out more about how you can get involved.\par
\b Internships\b0\par
Are you interested in working in a museum? Do you enjoy the fun and excitement of sharing the wonders of nature with people? Well you could be just the right person to enjoy an internship at the museum.\par
You\rquote ll be learning from a number of different academics and people who are passionate about science and sharing it with the wider community.\lang20\par
}
 